RPA - Pros (or benefits). Except from the fact that RPA have capabilities to mimic human interactions
in the user interface layer of the computer and can work across most systems, applications and platforms;
other benefits of the technology are: 24/7 operations.
RPA is operational outside working hours and maintains efficiency 24/7.
The robot never sleeps, never eats, never smokes and is never sick.
Neither does it have sick children it needs to stay home with,
so there will be no queues at peak. Cost reductions: Although there are some investments to be made
to have a fully operational robotic enterprise,
A robot costs approximately 1/10th of a human employee. Per automated process,
we typically see a cost reduction of 30 to 60%. Improved efficiency:
The robot is very fast and we typically see the robot do task 3 to 15x faster than human employees
doing the same task. Quality:
The robot is 100% accurate and therefore prevents errors typically made by humans.
It is also increasing the focus on exceptions as these will be highlighted and left for humans to correct.
Valuable work:
Employees do not need to waste any capacity for routine tasks and can focus on more rewarding and value-
adding activities in their enterprise.
Short payback period: RPA implementation costs are usually paid off in less than 12 months.
Scalability: capacity can be increased on-demand without a long or costly build-up face.
Then we have Internal control:
Every action taken by the robot is logged, which offers full audit logs so that we easily can perform
control and compliance checks on the automated processes.
And due to its ease of use, RPA software is often developed and configured by the business side in
organizations, and only monitored by IT.
This makes it more interesting than a lot of other technologies.
It's also extremely fast to implement. Development,
testing and implementation of a business process can be done within weeks.
So these are the main benefits of the RPA technology.
Let's have a look at a small example to see the benefits of applying RPA to a simple - but relevant -
process.
Most companies receive invoices from their suppliers.
And suppose that we now have a company where all their invoices are stored in a centralized application.
A simple process for a worker at our company would be to log into the invoice application once every
day, manually search for today's invoices, control them; for example:
Are the invoices approved?
Does the financial accounts seem right?
Is the invoice due?
Is the invoice balanced? And so on...
Then the employee would post the invoice and end the process. This is a task an RPA would handle
with ease. The steps would look approximately the same,
but if, for example, one of the invoices did not make it through the control in step number three,
then the RPA would send the invoice to a human for manual control before it's posted.
OK, so imagine that before RPA, the human employees spend two minutes controlling and posting every
single invoice manually; and that the number of invoices per day was 1100.
This means that it would take humans approximately 36,5 hours a day to control all
invoices.
And also humans should be expected to make a few mistakes along the way.
Now, imagine that we have an RPA that could do the task in 20 seconds.
The time spent on 1100 invoices a day would then be 367 minutes
or 6 hours.
That is 6x faster and only a few hours of human time would be needed to handle invoices with
errors.
So now I want you to pause a minute and just note down what benefits you see of automating this process.
And you could also, for example, calculate the time saving of having robots doing this task instead
of humans.
You could, for instance, say that the robot could handle 90% of the invoices,
so 10% are still sent to humans for extra control.